---
title:       "Freeform Rant"
author:      "aigeanta"
type:        blog
date:        2011-11-14
draft:       false
promote:     false
sticky:      false
url:         /blog/aigeanta/2011/11/14/freeform-rant
aliases:     [ /node/95 ]
topics:      [ "politics" ]

# Summary:
# <p>I'm going to start ranting.&nbsp;For the past several years I've mostly used <a href="http://twitter.com/aigeanta">my twitter account</a> for disseminating information. How about my opinion?&nbsp;</p>

---
<p>I'm going to start ranting.&nbsp;For the past several years I've mostly used <a href="http://twitter.com/aigeanta">my twitter account</a> for disseminating information. How about my opinion?&nbsp;</p>
<p>I'm really shocked by the complete lack of any moral character in our civilization. Presidential candidates think waterboarding is A-OK...&nbsp;I mean, come on. This is Ethics 101 people. If you have knowledge of a helpless person coming to harm, YOU HAVE TO HELP THEM.&nbsp;Torturing people is....wrong! OMG are we really having this conversation in 2011? Did I suddenly step into a time machine and it's 1011?&nbsp;We restrict people's liberties so that they will not pose any further risk of doing harm. Harming prisoners is...hypocritical!&nbsp;</p><p>When I was a kid, I was reasonably patriotic. I thought TPTB were corrupt, but I had no idea they were also so unbelievably *STUPID*!&nbsp;Dear Capitalist Pigs: Do Not Shit In Your Own Living Room. Try to not break Capitalism as you feed incessantly at the trough.&nbsp;The next time I hear about "moral hazard" from some snotty-nosed banker who's never worked a real day in their godforsaken lives, Imma puke.&nbsp;If I already have a big slice of the pie, and I want to eat a lot more, guess what's not going to work? Shrinking the pie for everyone!&nbsp;</p><p>Folks, we have been invaded by stupid, greedy pod-people. It's high-time we evict the no-good sons of bitches.&nbsp;Some guy in Sonoma had to chase down and tie up a robber who was let out of CA prison due to budget cuts. Why are we letting it get so bad?&nbsp;Why is there even a conversation about austerity and cutting Social Security and Medicare? Do the rich get to sacrifice a goddamn thing?&nbsp;For every dollar spent on unemployment insurance, it's <a href="http://mediamatters.org/research/201007020030">like $1.60 in in direct stimulus</a> on the economy.&nbsp;That anyone would doubt such a statistic shows how fucking out of touch these politicians have become. If I'm broke, I spend it all. If I'm rich, I save...&nbsp;</p><p>Ok riddle me this. Why on earth should there be *any* contributions allowed for campaigns anymore?&nbsp;Want my vote? Write down WTF you think we should do, make a website, post a YouTube, AND YOU'RD DONE. Did that cost anything? No? OK then.&nbsp;I think the single most important thing any movement can do is to remove $$$ from campaigns. See:&nbsp;<a href="http://www.rootstrikers.org/">http://www.rootstrikers.org/</a>&nbsp;We've spent oodles of our hard-earned tax receipts bailing out rich fucks who don't even know what to do with it.&nbsp;</p><p>If I were to construct a jobs bill, this is what it would do. It would create a million jobs in 3 months by asking people what jobs we need to get done.&nbsp;Each month I'd need to make about 333,000 jobs in 50 states, working out to 6,660 new employees per state per month.&nbsp;Each $40,000/yr job would provide $22,000,000 in new monthly income to be spent on things workers need to work, stimulating each state.&nbsp;Tax revenues, let's say 10%, would be $2,200,000/mo, much better than spending $10,656,000/mo on unemployment for 6660 workers.&nbsp;After 3 months of my hiring binge, I'd have spent a whole whopping....$6.66 billion dollars to hire and retain a million people...&nbsp;Now compare that little piddly sum with the $11 trillion dollars to bail out banks and financial institutions! How many jobs did they make?&nbsp;Yup, by my calculations,&nbsp;<a href="http://www.reuters.com/article/2011/06/29/us-usa-war-idUSTRE75S25320110629#">two weeks in Iraq/Afghanistan/Pakistan is $20 billion dollars</a>. How's that investment looking now?</p><p>So anyway, I guess what I'm trying to get at here, is that solutions don't come from above, so stop looking up; you'll just get peed on.</p>
